feeling obsessed about an algorithm
update obsessed about the user because
that's what Google is doing so if you're
obsess about the user you're focusing on
the right thing not the wrong one
that's huge advice there
hey welcome back everyone to another
episode of eat sleep and invest I'm your
host Brian Driscoll and we have Neil
Patel what's going on Neil uh not much
how's life it's going it's going
hey So for anybody who doesn't know Neo
Neil crushes it you're like the
Godfather of SEO right
about that but I got started early in
the digital marketing Arena
yeah give everyone a little bit of
background on uh just on everything you
have going on
sure so I blog at neilpatel.com about
marketing uh I run a Ad Agency called NP
digital
um which stands for Neil Patel digital
and we help companies of all sizes grow
from really large corporations like
Fortune 100 to even smbs and mid-size
companies
um some of our clients funny enough are
uh property managers some of them are uh
decent sized companies that have maybe a
few thousand units between different
buildings that they own but yeah we just
help companies get more traffic get more
leads get more sales get more you know
um tenants whatever you may want to end
up calling depending on the industry
and yeah I've just been doing this for
like 20 plus years now kind of love it
yeah all right cool so so talking about
SEO so you've been in this since
like Google started pretty much and I
know what do you think the most
important part of the of SEO is
the most important part of SEO is
providing the most value to the user at
the end of the day the sites that have
the best content the best experience the
best product the best service are the
ones that are going to win for example
you can optimize the site however much
you want but if everyone's searching for
cheap laptop and you're offering the
same laptop if you're offering the same
laptop as me but you're at a thousand
dollars and I'm at five hundred dollars
I'm the one who's gonna eventually rank
hard because everyone's like half the
cost for the same product so everyone's
gonna be clicking on my listing and
buying from me that's an example of like
it doesn't matter how much you optimize
right it is important don't get me wrong
but like a good product on the service
really goes a long way
yeah I agree there too because Google's
primary job is to give answers to people
what they're searching what's what's
most relevant yes I think a lot of
people can have a loop on that you got
it right when someone does a search
they're searching for a solution to
their problem cheap laptop uh you know
what's the best way to make a basement
is it ICF or is it you know you do the
wood then you have the concrete uh is
LVL better than steel framing or you
know you know how our steel studs can
they bear weight like people are looking
for questions to an answer
and then this question is who provides
the best answer
now now you do you still do a lot of
your writing yourself I know you used to
I I do we have a team that updates a lot
of my old piece of content I don't write
as much as I used to but I still write
quite a bit of content
yeah now what do you find
um
not necessarily between long form and
short form but talking about relevance
things like that do you still
um recommend like the pillar posts
having a long informational one that
breaks off into more detailed pieces or
how do you recommend people do that if
they want to do a pretty detailed
informational piece
well let's go back a little bit most
people are listening are in real estate
what do they specifically do in real
estate
yeah mainly investing these guys are
buying houses fixing them flipping them
or keeping them as rentals
are they raising money
some of them will be yeah
and then some of them are looking for
better opportunities of course right so
you want to end up creating content
where people want to end up working with
you partnering with you investing in you
working with you could be they find you
better deals learning from you or doing
something cheaper rate so that way they
can help you out and learn from you
investing in you of course gets you more
Capital so you can end up buying more
properties but let's say you create a
social content
and if you create a content on like this
is why you shouldn't buy a house these
are the bad rides everyone's saying that
the Market's going up and there's no or
markets going down and there's no deals
here's an example of how you can make
money in a bad economy here's examples
of what you shouldn't buy you know even
if the market is frothy or bad these are
just bad deals and like if you tear
someone down on social content I think
that'll do really well
um if you are trying to create your own
website or if you should ideally create
your own website with the portfolio of
all the products you did the returns I
would also start creating articles on
like what to look for when you're
renovating a house how do you find a
diamond in the rough you know um how
ugly houses uh
uh create better returns than beautiful
houses and then you can talk about how
you can buy the Ugly Houses what you
need to do what things sell like
kitchens really sell a house
school districts sell a house the other
thing that I'm going to breaking down
like in real estate if I was doing
a real estate website is I would be very
very specific so with my content I
wouldn't just do generic stuff I'm like
here's how to get rich doing real estate
that doesn't work really well you got to
get very granular like here's how you
fix up
low-end houses here's how you make money
on luxury Coastal real estate here's how
you make money on multi-family uh
complexes that have more than 100 units
here's how you do well with four plexus
biplexes six pluses Etc like small
amounts so I'm getting very specific as
you can see right like if I was into
high-rise luxury condos I would have a
Blog just for highlights luxury condos I
would also talk about things like hey
it's harder to flip these unless you get
appreciation because the HOA dues so the
rental economics aren't as great due to
the HOA dues
okay yeah yeah a lot of the phrases like
our guys are targeting like sell my like
people with Google sell my house fast
sell my house for cash uh cash home
buying companies things like that yeah
so so if you want to do like sell my
home fast
you can write articles on like what's
the quickest way to sell your house at a
good price
and then you create like step by steps
here the companies that help with that
this is what you should look for when
you're talking to these people this is
how you know you're getting a good deal
here's how long you can expect it to
close and get the cash things like that
yeah gotcha
um
I'm sure you've seen it what do you
think about all these uh AI content
writing things that came out like open
AI Jasper all that kind of stuff
they're not bad to get you a start but
they don't really write a great piece of
content
yeah that's what I've seen too it's like
you almost have to think from the user
standpoint like you're saying before
what's going to answer the what's going
to answer the problem give them that
stuff and then optimize it so that the
so Google in the search engines can
actually
know what it's like know what it's about
also
exactly you got it right
how do you how do you make like I see a
lot of people when they're writing their
content they're not easy to read and not
personal like do you have any tips for
people especially people that don't
write a lot on how to make that
relatable
yeah so the the biggest one is you want
to use the words you and I a lot now
here's the example let's say I'm writing
an article on like how to sell your home
really fast I'm like doesn't it suck to
list your house and wait 60 80 90 days
on average I know the feeling
I remember when I sold my house a few
years ago it sat on the market for six
months I kid you not and that wasn't
that bad if you actually look at this
quote by The Real Estate Association of
America the average home sits on the
market 73 days
now here's a crazy thing why should it
be that way there must be a way to sell
your home really fast right wouldn't
that be a dream for all of us I know it
would have been for me
but here's the crazy thing with
technology and with real estate being
such an Old Market there are now ways to
actually sell your home really quickly
and save on a lot of fees
so here's how you can actually sell your
home really quickly and I wish someone
would have told me this when I was
selling my lasso
I just made that up yeah I can tell you
got a lot of experience it's off the
cuff
yeah I wrote a lot of Articles over my
years
no and that's good too because
especially for people that don't know
how not necessarily don't know how to
write but don't write a lot
a lot of people I think get held up in
their head it's like oh I got to do this
do this make this real proper and not
like you were just saying that's really
relatable someone reads that they're
like oh this guy seems legit maybe I
should reach out to him yeah but you you
get home relating telling stories using
words URI talking about my own
experiences
those are all examples any stats and
data you can use helps I made up the
national Real Estate Association of
America or whatever I call that I don't
know if that even exists but there must
be some stats somewhere on how long a
home sits on the market before it sells
in the United States
yeah all right cool that makes sense so
let's talk a little bit about link
building right so back in the day we
used to be able to spam links out and
rank like crazy like what do you what do
you think now what what's going on with
link building these days
yeah so links are super important think
of links as votes the more people voting
for a president the more chances are
that President wins they say the reason
I say chances is because it's also state
by state basis where Winner Takes all in
the United States but generally speaking
for most election it is whoever gets the
most of the votes wins
internet whoever gets the most votes but
on the internet about being a link so
the more websites that link to yours the
better off you are but there's some
caveats to it if I was running for
presidency and Obama went out on
campaign and say I'm voting for Neil you
should you know uh elect him and then
President Bush came out and said I'm
voting for Neil as well you should go
and vote for him those are people who
are known to be in politics and were
presidents so if they say hey you should
vote for Neil there's more likely chance
that I'm going to uh those votes count
for more you get what I mean even though
they apply for one vote they really sway
a lot more people because they're
ex-presidents so that's an example of
how you want to get quality
so if it's authoritative site like a New
York Times CNN or anything that's
related like if you're in real estate
and uh have you heard of Bigger Pockets
oh yeah of course that's the example of
a popular Real Estate website like if
they link to you or Zillow or one of
those sites that helps more with
rankings so it's relevancy and Authority
so if you get either of those that helps
more the spammy stuff doesn't really do
well or carry much and it's just short
term and that's not going to help you
win on the long run
what do you think about the guys out
there selling link packages things like
that give me three grand or whatever it
doesn't work
yeah I see that too it works like short
period of time and then your website
could disappear or whatever you know
yeah some companies sell link packages
but they're manually done and they're
not buying them which is the key you
don't want to buy them and they look at
your website first and they actually
look at your content and they try to
figure out if they can actually build
you links because if someone just sells
you a link package and they don't know
your content and they don't know your
space it's going to be really hard for
them to fulfill unless they're buying
them and you don't want any bot links
going to your website
yeah how about pbns I know no avoid
those two short run maybe they'll help a
long run they're definitely gonna hurt
you yeah give everyone a little just
like a short description on what a pbn
is if they don't know what it is
so pbn stands for private blog Network
that's someone owning a lot of domain
names and their own websites uh and then
they'll link to you from their own
properties
so it's really easy for them to add
links because they control the inventory
yeah basically manipulating the search
engine or at least trying to all right
on uh like on links so these guys are
all local mainly all investors are local
um what are your thoughts on going after
like I know a lot of people donate to
the Cub Scouts things like that and they
get links back from those websites
they're not necessarily real estate but
they're local what do you think on those
um
those aren't too effective you shouldn't
be donating for links you should be
donating because you want to support a
cause you want ideally links from
local communities and sites and don't
hurt a donate to get a link just get it
because you earned it because the
quality of your content or you're doing
great stuff within the community
so basically yeah right right Kick-Ass
content and have people link back to you
exactly like a great example of this I
was at the grocery store this weekend
saw some boy scouts okay I could have
kept getting you know I gave them money
for some popcorn they saw popcorn I gave
the kid a hundred dollars he wasn't
selling anything and it's hot here in
Vegas so give him a hundred dollars I
took a bag of popcorn I'm pretty sure a
bag of popcorn doesn't cost a hundred
dollars I don't I didn't ask him what it
cost I just took something because it
makes him feel like he sold it and he
got a hundred dollars so he was ecstatic
he tried to give me a change that I
didn't care I was like nah keep the
change that's cool I didn't ask him for
anything right I don't care if
for more popcorn I didn't care for any
additional benefit I didn't care for
them to be like hey do you got a website
can you link to me or any of that the
purpose of donating is because it makes
you happy it fulfills something in your
heart
um and don't do it for links
yeah and you know what you probably made
that kid's day too he was probably
pumped
I don't know if he was pumped his dad
said thank you he technically was there
with his dad so he wasn't really by
himself but
um yeah I remember his dad came after me
as we were walking away because only
picked one bag of popcorn he's like you
should try this one too and he gave it
to me and I was like okay I didn't want
to be rude right so then uh I I wasn't
trying to take the popcorn because I
wanted look Boy Scouts I don't know how
that kind of stuff works but I was like
kids selling something he's doing
something good in life learning some
skills he's not there selling drugs or
whatever and what is 100 degrees outside
you gotta respect someone's hustle for
trying to sell popcorn in terrible
weather
100 percent
so now so you write your blogs right you
have all this all this content in your
website by the way how much how many
visitors do you currently get
organically on your site now on
neilpatel.com honestly I don't look
Millions but I don't look yeah it looked
at me I checked that it looked like
three four million uh from what I saw
per month
checking and we have so many other sites
too that are really popular but like I
just stopped checking yeah because like
it doesn't matter I'll look at on a
monthly basis how many qualified leads
are we driving and how many of those
leads convert into opportunities I know
those opportunities how many close
traffic's a vanity number right like I
can write articles on how to get the
most amount of Instagram followers and
get a shitload more traffic but that's
not going to get me any big clients
you know that brings up a good point too
so say say we're talking about traffic
um we got like transactional traffic
informational traffic and you're talking
about looking at the kpis
what what do you look at when doing
content and trying to bring the right
types of people to your website so in
Google analytics there's something
called first touch and last touch it'll
actually show you what caused someone to
first come to your website and then
convert and what cause them to convert
or what what do they see right before
they convert it so then you can see like
some of these informational keywords
that are just top a level that are top
of funnel that really help get you
people into your community and then you
can end up going down and then you can
see what are the keywords that really
drive the majority of the sales but you
need both
right because you want to build
awareness and the trust Factor as well
and you can use tools like ubersuggest
to find them out you can put in any
competitor URL and it'll tell you all
their
um it'll tell you all their keywords
that they're going after and what's
driving them traffic
now Uber suggests that's ubersuggest.com
right uh-huh
okay so that's a tool you when did you
make that was that like six years ago or
something
no someone else made it and then we
bought it for like 120 Grand years and
years ago and then we improved upon it
okay yeah I heard you talking a long
time ago it's before you charge anything
for you're like we're just gonna give it
away for free and keep making it awesome
and figure out how to make money on it
in the future which I don't think you
even really charge a lot for it now
like I think like 10 20 bucks or
something like that 30 I don't know
somewhere in the price range that that's
what happens when you have a lot of
people you end up forgetting a lot of
stuff because there's just so many
different divisions and people and you
know we're expanding so fast I think we
just added Germany that we're looking to
add in France Italy soon Spain Portugal
uh we'll add in Malaysian single person
not just for the tool but tools already
Works globally but it's more so head
count and offices within these regions
so so I hear obviously crushing it like
what are your goals now like what really
what's really making you tick is it
growing buying other businesses or
growing your business or what growing my
own business we do buy other businesses
we bought a business in February for
like eight and change I think 8.6 is
what we paid for it something I don't
know exactly but a summer around that
price tag it was a euro conversion or
not Euro pound conversion dollars to
pounds as a company in the UK but um
yeah we keep buying stuff uh we try to
keep growing organically and we just
love what we're doing want to create
um the biggest digital advertising or
marketing agency out there and I think
we can we probably have a long way to go
but if I fast forward five years you'd
probably be at two three thousand
employees so hopefully we can keep
growing and cranking that's pretty solid
um yeah you have crazy crazy growth too
yeah you're growing really quickly
um when you write your blogs so how much
because I know you send an email what is
it once a week
twice a week usually sometimes three
okay what made you come up with a PS in
the uh the call to action in the PS
section it converts
if you want to sell your house really
quickly click here this works really
well you'll end up getting a lot of
leads
yeah yes I see that a lot I'm like I'm
like that's genius you're sending out
content giving value like most people
send out content hey do you want to sell
your house or like just asking for
things you're giving something
and then it's like hey here's an awesome
piece of content on how to rank how to
rank with these 10 steps and then oh by
the way if you need help we can help you
exactly
because a lot of people won't do it so
then you're just selling them at the
same time but you're selling them
without really selling them because
you're like more like you're selling by
helping them
right and I noticed too that you have um
how do you choose the anchor texts it
looks like you linked twice per email
right
uh one sometimes twice at least once
though and there's no anchor text we do
the anchor text based on what we think
is going to get the most clicks
okay gotcha do you use any um
you have you use uh you have heat
mapping software too that you guys own
right uh-huh crazy yeah
yeah so tell everyone that doesn't
understand what heat mapping is a little
bit about because they can grab that
software from you as well so
think of you got a website you're trying
to get people to buy sell their houses
to you really fast
how are you getting the traffic how do
you know they're clicking on your call
to actions your forms feels your phone
numbers and it's in the right place and
you're optimizing how many leads you get
from your website the heat mapping
software shows you where they're moving
their Mouse movements where they're
clicking where they're not and what
typically will drive the most uh what
you need to adjust with your site so
that way you can get the most revenue
from those visitors
yeah which is huge yeah especially on
conversion tracking
um
so what do you see coming on the local
local SEO space like with Google and
everything like what kind of changes are
you anticipating
I I don't they make a lot of algorithm
changes per day most of them are minor I
don't really look at like what new
algorithm update they're going to do I
found that the keys you just do what's
best for the user and you win in the
long run short run sometimes you get
dinged but long run you typically win
dude it's not obsessed about an
algorithm update obsessed about the user
because that's what Google is doing so
if you're obsess about the user you're
focusing on the right thing not the
wrong one
that's huge advice there like everyone
go back and listen to that because
people are always talking about hey
what's Google doing what's the algorithm
if you focus on what is going to help
the user it's playing by Google's rules
and you should get rewarded like that's
huge yeah because most people are like
oh I need to obsess about Google well
Google's obsessed about the user so why
would you obsess about Google obsess
about the thing they're obsessing about
because that's how you win
exactly yeah
um are you how how much do you do in the
other spaces like Facebook Google
pay-per-click uh Tick Tock things like
that you do quite a bit we do all the
main channels Reddit Pinterest uh
Facebook uh Tick Tock Instagram LinkedIn
Twitter like the list goes on and on
what's the uh top one that most people
wouldn't think about
we love LinkedIn it works really well
um Tick Tock funny enough is is starting
to do really well for people to generate
leads especially in real estate but
people ignore it
are you are you talking about the paid
ads on LinkedIn and uh Tick Tock or
organic organic
like you can create a tick tock video on
like here's how to sell your house in
one week
you get step one do this step two do
this step three do this step four this
is how I know you got a good deal step
five like the deal take it step six
don't like the deal go here and then
rinse and repeat
it's hot yeah and I do see this the tips
like like you're talking about right
there too they're what's getting
engagement uh-huh
that's what people want to see
all right cool we're we're almost out of
time what is the one tip that you'd give
Real Estate Investors in the SEO space
great content if you don't create good
content you're not going to rank well
okay yeah good answer good answer is
there anything else we missed just
talking like on a basic level
uh be patient you know like even if you
do SEO whether you do it yourself or
hire someone or it doesn't matter don't
expect the world within three to six
months you got to be patient you got to
be consistent you gotta do it for years
and you'll really crush it but you got
to be patient
yeah that is true too because yeah a lot
of people
I know even from experience way back in
the day you make a change on your
website and you keep tweaking it try to
make it right or you're not patient and
then you just go nowhere yeah
um oh hey one other question I wanted to
ask you on the um you give any tips on
ranking not necessarily in the real
estate space but um just in general in
the news news sections for like bigger
Publications
right on card events you can find out
what's happening through tools like
answer the public and uh Google Trends
you can see what's hot right now right
on those and I'll you're more liking
show up in Google News
go and if anybody wants to reach out to
you or is looking for uh your help
what's the best way for them to reach
you NP digital and as a Nancy
piersonpauldigital.com
hey well thanks for coming on Neil we
appreciate you thanks for having me